# A novel technique for multivariate time series classification using deep forest algorithm
Data-driven health assessment approaches for anomaly detection and fault diagnosis rely on domain knowledge, algorithm performance, and computational power. Different techniques have been proposed to alleviate the requirements given the variety of problems in the industry. Thus, given its adaptability to identify patterns from data in several applications, deep learning is one of the most feasible approaches that exhibits great prediction capability in a variety of fields. However, deep learning algorithms require high training time, complex hyperparameter optimization, and high computational power. Furthermore, classical machine learning techniques show high performance but depend on domain knowledge and feature engineering. However, domain knowledge is not always available in the industry, and it can bias the algorithm due to human preferences, experiences, etc. Thus, in this thesis, due to the challenges of the current state-of-the-art algorithms, an alternative method is proposed to perform multivariate time series classification. By using deep forest algorithm which performs a layer-by-layer learning style inspired by deep neural networks and utilizing only raw data, the proposed methodology approaches the mentioned challenges of deep learning and machine learning. Three main steps are required for this method: data preparation, deep forest modeling, and prediction. Furthermore, the technique works with sequential raw data in the time, frequency, and time & frequency domain without any feature engineering. Moreover, two cases of study are presented to validate the proposed method: fault diagnosis of rock drills and anomaly detection of traumatic brain injury data. The proposed method is compared with deep learning algorithms in terms of accuracy, training time, hyperparameter sensitivity, and robustness. Deep learning is used as a benchmark in this thesis since works with raw data as the input of the algorithm like the proposed method does. The results show that the proposed methodology is comparably accurate, faster, and more robust than deep learning.

Link: http://rave.ohiolink.edu/etdc/view?acc_num=ucin1684773252932189
